+++
title = "Reports"
draft = false
weight = 30
+++

## Reports resulting from SeaJay Environmental project support



[California Floating Offshore Wind Regional Ports Feasibility Analysis](https://www.boem.gov/sites/default/files/documents/regions/pacific-ocs-region/BOEM-2023-038.pdf#:~:text=The%20purpose%20of%20this%20report%20is%20to%20further,Ports%20Assessment%2C%20BOEM%202023-010%20%28Moffatt%20%26%20Nichol%202023%29) (2023)

SeaJay's team provided support to Moffatt & Nichol, which involved evaluating permit feasibility and environmental risks that could affect costs related to possible upgrades at fifteen seaport sites in California for offshore wind. This resulted in a 2023 report to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.


___

[Environmental Data Catalog for the Humboldt Wind Area](https://www.pointblue.org/tools-and-guidance/research/environmental-catalog-for-the-humboldt-wind-area/) (2022)

[Environmental Data Catalog for the Humboldt Wind Area](https://www.pointblue.org/tools-and-guidance/research/environmental-data-catalog-for-the-morro-bay-wind-energy-area/) (2022)

Supported Point Blue Conservation Science in the preparation of two separate environmental data catalogs for the Humboldt Bay and Morro Bay offshore wind energy areas, which were used to support California resource agencies during their coastal consistency review of a federal offshore wind lease sale that was held December 2022.


___

<u>Biological Resources Assessment for the Half Moon Bay Yacht Club Dock 
Expansion Project</u> (2015)

SeaJay Environmental conducted an on-site and desk-top assessment of 
biological resources in the vicinity of the Half Moon Bay Yacht Club in 
Pillar Point Harbor, California, for an eventual coastal development permit 
related to a dock expansion project. 


___


[Draft Programmatic Environmental Assessment of Potential White Shark 
Research and Education Projects Within the Gulf of the Farallones and 
Monterey Bay National Marine 
Sanctuaries](http://farallones.noaa.gov/eco/sharks/pdf/GFNMS_Draft_White_SharkPEA_3-24-14.pdf) 
(2014) 

SeaJay Environmental prepared the draft programmatic environmental 
assessment for the Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary’s (GFNMS) 
White Shark Stewardship Project to assess the effects of all existing and 
proposed research and ecotourism activities on white sharks in the GFNMS 
and Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
___

[James V. Fitzgerald Area of Special Biological Significance Pollution 
Reduction Program Pilot BMP Summary 
Report](http://smchealth.org/sites/default/files/docs/EHS/Pilot_Phase_Fitz_Report_130328_final.pdf) 
(2013)<br>
San Francisco Estuary Institute

SeaJay Environmental assisted the San Francisco Estuary Institute in a 
stormwater monitoring project with the County of San Mateo Department of 
Public Works and Parks. The monitoring was conducted to evaluate several 
types of structural stormwater treatment best management practices and low 
impact development practices that the county had implemented at six 
locations where stormwater discharges into the protected James V. 
Fitzgerald Area of Special Biological Significance in Montara and Moss 
Beach, CA.
___

[An Assessment of the Final Rule to Implement Vessel Speed Restrictions to 
Reduce the Threat of Vessel Collisions with North Atlantic Right 
Whales](http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/pr/pdfs/shipstrike/assessment_nmfsopr48.pdf) 
(2012)<br>
National Marine Fisheries Service Office of Protected Resources

SeaJay Environmental provided database support and data analysis to the 
National Marine Fisheries Service that was used to assess the effectiveness 
of a rule that requires vessels 65 feet and greater in length to slow their 
speeds to 10 knots or less near key port entrances and in certain areas of 
North Atlantic right whale aggregation along the U.S. Eastern seaboard, 
known as Seasonal Management Areas. 
___

[Prudent Development: Realizing the Potential of North America’s Abundant 
Natural Gas and Oil 
Resources](http://www.npc.org/reports/NARD/NARD_Ops-Environment.pdf) 
(2011)<br>
National Petroleum Council

SeaJay Environmental provided technical and editorial support to the 
Operations and Environment Subgroup of the National Petroleum Council, a 
federal advisory committee. The study was requested by Energy Secretary 
Steven Chu to reassess the character and potential of North American oil 
and natural gas resources. and the contribution that natural gas can make 
in a transition to a lower carbon energy mix.
___

[Vessel Operations in Right Whale Protection 
Areas](http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/pr/pdfs/shipstrike/opr44.pdf) 
(2009)<br>
National Marine Fisheries Service Office of Protected Resources

SeaJay Environmental created a SQL Server database and assisted in the data 
analysis to help characterize vessel traffic volume, patterns and speeds of 
vessels transiting Seasonal Management Areas along the Eastern seaboard. 
The rule was implemented for the purpose of preventing collisions between 
ships and the highly depleted North Atlantic right whale. 
___

[Shell Best Management Practices for Blasting and Painting Offshore 
Facilities](https://www.onepetro.org/conference-paper/SPE-121052-MS) 
(2009)<br>
Society of Petroleum Engineers

SeaJay Environmental worked with Shell Exploration & Production engineers 
and operations managers to draft this paper that was presented by Shell at 
the Society of Petroleum Engineers conference in 2009. The paper describes 
best practices related to the periodical inspection and maintenance of 
offshore oil and gas facilities to assure structural integrity and minimize 
pollution and safety risks.

